I would also like to share with you, dear fellow practitioners.
This is just a sharing: how we practice
and who
prays for Buddha's blessings will receive them. But what about those who
pray for Buddha's blessings
constantly and still stray from the right
path if their minds are
not subordinate to anyone in the present moment? If our minds are not subordinate to anyone,
we will be led astray. The mind of gratitude is
extremely important on
our path to enlightenment.
If our minds stray from
gratitude and we see ourselves as
subordinate to no one, we will be
broken, dear fellow practitioners. Like Mr. and Mrs. Dat,
he was very close to the Buddha, but
his mind had no one to be subordinate to, so
he fell into depravity.
We, as practitioners, must always see our minds as subordinate to at
least one person, or countless
people, but at least one person.
Now, I will think about this point with you,
dear fellow practitioners. Like our Buddha,
he had a grateful mind. When he attained
enlightenment,
he was grateful to the Bodhi tree that sheltered him from the rain and sun all day.
So, that mind...
Where does gratitude come from? It means that in every
life and every existence, the Buddha's mind
always had an object of
gratitude, and in this
life, Prince Siddhartha went to practice asceticism.
He had six teachers of other religions, but
he was always an excellent disciple
of those six teachers. Being an
excellent disciple means his mind
was subordinate to one person. Similarly, in
any action, I never let my mind be superior to
anyone. According to you, dear fellow
practitioners, we must maintain this grateful mind
in every action. We
will not go astray because good and evil are within
our own minds. Buddha and demon are within
our own minds. If our mind is not grateful to
one person, we will be led astray.
Therefore, today I share with you, dear fellow practitioners, that
our mind must always be subordinate to one
person on our path to enlightenment. This
mind, always subordinate to one person, must be
decisive in all good and evil deeds. This is the same as the
grateful mind subordinate to one person that
Prince Siddhartha had, the six
teachers of other religions, and the decision to go
alone.  Because the six heterodox teachers did not
satisfy Prince Siddhartha with
liberation, therefore, we should be under one
person, but only to learn the good
Dharma. If we cling
to one person and see them wrong,
we will be
attached to them. Therefore, we should be under one person
with a grateful heart and with the wisdom to discern good from evil.
This person has been kind
to us, has helped us. But
what evil deeds is this person doing in the present?
We must see them with our own eyes, examine them, and know them clearly. We
must be grateful to them and leave with that
grateful heart. We will meet
more good people who can be our teachers and guide
us further. But
what kind of people will we not encounter
evil teachers?
Our Prince Siddhartha's learning from the six
heterodox teachers
is a manifestation of a Bodhisattva, dear fellow
practitioners. This is the
manifestation of a Bodhisattva. To
attain the state of perfect enlightenment,
that is, he practiced heterodox teachings, and no one can surpass him.  Therefore,
that's why he had the opportunity to save those of other
faiths, right, my
esteemed fellow practitioners?
The six great schools of thought in India, even
Prince Siddhartha had attained enlightenment in all their teachings,
yet he couldn't resolve them. So
later, the Buddha had the opportunity to save those of
other faiths; that was the opportunity to save sentient beings, so
he manifested himself. As for us,
we must firmly grasp all
our good and virtuous hearts, especially the
heart of gratitude, and remember that we are on the
right path. We practice according to
cause and effect, so we should remember to place
our hearts at least under one person who has helped, is helping,
and will continue to help us in our
practice. We must place our hearts
under one person so that we don't fall.
Otherwise, we will be like
Siddhartha and his wife, and we will die, right?
[Music]
Oh y